                    Nicholas Paul Sheppard's Licence
                             Version 1.10
                            21st May 1999

Preamble
--------

This licence is intended to guarantee the free distribution, use and
modification of the accompanying package for non-profit purposes, to protect
the intellectual property rights of the author(s) of the package, and to
dissolve the author(s) of all responsibility for use of the package.

This package is produced on a non-profit basis for the benefit of the general
community.

It is usual practice in software licensing to deny all responsibility for
the quality and usefulness of the product, even for products for which large
sums are charged and which carry great promises in advertising material. This
licence continues this dubious tradition by arguing that the user gets what he
or she pays for. While the author(s) offer every hope that the package is
defect-free, and that the user finds the package useful for its stated purpose,
as this licence precludes the author(s) from receiving payment for their work,
they cannot guarantee that they have the resources to ensure perfection of the
package. The author(s) certainly will not take any responsibility for anything
the user did over which they have no control.


The Agreement
-------------

Use or distribution of this package, either as-is or in an essentially
unmodified form, either alone or in conjunction with another product, indicates
acceptance of the terms of this licence.

The package may not be used, distributed or modified under any conditions
other than those set out in this licence.


Distribution
------------

This section covers distribution of the package in an essentially unaltered
form, that is, a form in which no essential modifications (as described in the
`Modification' section below) have been made to the package. Such a package may
be distributed under the following conditions:

  (a) a copy of this licence is distributed verbatim with the distribution,
      and

  (b) no charge is made for the distribution, other than possibly to cover
      the reasonable costs incurred in the act of distribution (such as, but
      not limited to, postage, disks, network charges, etc.), either as-is or
      as part of or in association with another product.

The unmodified package must be distributed under this licence.


Modification
------------

This section covers distribution of the package in a form in which it has been
modified in some essential way. An `essential modification' of the package
makes non-trivial alterations throughout a substantial portion of the package.
It does not include, for example, straightforward translation, making a
distribution of a verbatim portion of the package, or altering the format of
the distribution. Such modified packages may be distributed under the following
conditions:

  (a) documentation for the resulting modification duly notes the changes
      that have been from the original distribution, and the modified
      distribution is assigned a different name to that of the original
      distribution,

  (b) the contribution of all authors of this package and forebearing packages
      are duly noted.

Such a modified package may be licensed under either

  (a) this licence or (at your option) a later version of this licence,

  (b) the GNU General Public Licence (whichever version is current at the time
      the modification is made, or a later version), or

  (c) (if appropriate) the GNU Library General Public Licence

and distributed under the conditions of the appropriate licence.


Conditions of Use
-----------------

This package may not be used for financial gain, either directly or indirectly,
or in association with other for-profit activities. Hence, it may not be used
in a for-profit corporation even if the package is not itself being sold or
used to create saleable products.

The package may be used

   (a) for any non-profit personal use,

   (c) in any not-for-profit organisation, or

   (b) in any Government agency other than a for-profit corporation owned
       in whole or in part by the Government.

A link or reference to the package may be made for any purpose other than
advertisement of a for-profit product.


Warranty
--------

The package is supplied on an as-is basis in the hope that it will be useful,
entertaining, educational, and so forth, but is distributed with no warranty
whatsoever, or guarantee of fitness for any particular purpose.

Use of the package is at the user's own risk and the author(s) accept no
responsibility for any loss, damage, pain, etc. that might be caused by the use
of the package, either directly or indirectly, either alone or in conjunction
with another product or item.
